docs: rework sandbox guide (#28978)
electron/electron: docs/tutorial/sandbox.md

# Process Sandboxing

> One key security feature in Chromium is that processes can executed within a sandbox.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One key security feature in Chromium is that processes can be executed within a sandbox.
```

The sandbox limits the harm that untrusted code can cause by limiting access to most
system resources — sandboxed processes can only freely use CPU cycles and memory.
In order to perform operations requiring additional privilege, sandboxed processes
use dedicated communication channels to delegate tasks to more privileged processes.

In Chromium, sandboxing is mainly applied to renderer processes. In addition, certain
utility processes are also sandboxed, including the audio service, the GPU service,
and the storage service.

See Chromium's [Sandbox design document][sandbox] for more information.

## Sandboxing in Electron

Electron comes with a mixed sandbox environment, having Chromium's sandbox enabled but
disabling it by default for renderer processes (meaning that it still applies to the

> relevant utility processes).

Author: Resolved in deb19b1, but I didn't add the final line. My hope is that the heading structure will point folks to the correct section below on configuring the sandbox.

# Process Sandboxing

One key security feature in Chromium is that processes can executed within a sandbox.
The sandbox limits the harm that untrusted code can cause by limiting access to most
system resources — sandboxed processes can only freely use CPU cycles and memory.
In order to perform operations requiring additional privilege, sandboxed processes
use dedicated communication channels to delegate tasks to more privileged processes.

In Chromium, sandboxing is mainly applied to renderer processes. In addition, certain
utility processes are also sandboxed, including the audio service, the GPU service,

> and the storage service. On Windows, the `chrome://sandbox` page will show you the exact

Reviewer 2: Is their no macOS equivalent? If not I'm not sure it's worth mentioning as it might just confuse folks as to what they can't see, the majority of devs I assume are on macOS or linux 🤔

Author: According to Google Analytics, about half of our traffic is actually from Windows. That's also approximately in line with the rate of tickets we receive on Discord.

As for alternatives, there's no mention of them in the [Chromium doc I found](https://www.chromium.org/Home/chromium-security/articles/chrome-sandbox-diagnostics-for-windows).

Reviewer 3: Sandboxing mechanisms are vastly divergent on different OSes, it makes sense that this wouldn't be easily replicable on a different OS.

Perhaps we should avoid mentioning this altogether as it's not really information that is useful to the average developer.

Author: Done in b75691f

sandboxing policy associated with each process.

See Chromium's [Sandbox design document][sandbox] for more information.

## Sandboxing in Electron

Electron comes with a mixed sandbox environment, having Chromium's sandbox enabled but
disabling it by default for renderer processes (meaning that it still applies to the
relevant utility processes).

Unsandboxed renderers are not a problem for desktop applications that only display
trusted code, but it makes Electron less secure than Chromium for displaying untrusted
web content. For applications that require more security, sandboxed renderers are

> recommended.

Reviewer 2: We should probably add something here along the lines of:

It is important to note that even what you assume is trusted code may be potentially dangerous, with attack vectors varying from XSS, content injection to MITM attacks on a website you load remotely, there are countless ways attackers could theoretically make your trusted code do untrusted things.  We recommend sandboxing your renderers for all usecases even if it feels like an abundance of caution.

_i think that's the stance we want to have_

Reviewer 4: I love this, but the sentence above might require a few words of background? With your addition it comes off a bit "here's what we do by default, which you shouldn't really do".

Reviewer 3: We should enable `sandbox` by default IMO.

Author: Tried to address all of your feedback in deb19b1

Sandboxed processes in Electron behave _mostly_ in the same way as Chromium's do, but
Electron has a few additional quirks to consider.

### Renderer processes

When renderer processes in Electron are sandboxed, they behave in the same way as a

> regular Chrome renderer would. A sandboxed renderer won't be initialized in a Node.js
> environment, nor will it modify any default JavaScript APIs that behave differently
> by default in Electron (e.g. `window.open`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
regular Chrome renderer would. A sandboxed renderer won't have a Node.js
environment initialized.
```

The `window.open` comment is slightly inaccurate, we do in fact modify certain `window` globals even when sandboxing is enabled

Author: Thanks for the update! The doc had that sentence in previously, and I hadn't actually looked at the code to test.

> <!-- TODO(erickzhao): when we have a solid guide for IPC, link it here -->

Reviewer 2: Would love to collab on making this guide at some point, laying out how to cleanly do IPC from main->renderer->bridge and back again

> Therefore, when the sandbox is enabled, renderer processes can only make changes to the
> system by delegating tasks to the main process via inter-process communication (IPC).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore, when the sandbox is enabled, renderer processes can only perform certain tasks
such interacting with the filesystem, making changes to the system, or spawning subprocesses
by delegating these tasks to the main process via inter-process communication (IPC).
```

Author: b167321

### Preload scripts

In order to allow renderer processes to communicate with the main process, preload

> scripts attached to sandboxed renderers will still have a limited Node.js environment
> enabled. Node's `require` module is exposed, but will only be able to import a subset
> of Electron and Node's built-in modules:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
scripts attached to sandboxed renderers will still have a polyfilled subset of Node.js APIs
available. A `require` function similar to Node's `require` module is exposed, but can only
import a subset of Electron and Node's built-in modules:
```

We might want to reference somewhere in this section that because the `require` function only provides access to these four modules users writing preload scripts may have to bundle their preload script into a single file utilizing bundlers such as webpack or parcel.

Author: Oh, the previous iteration of this doc had that mentioned (although it used browserify as an example).

 Could you expand on the importance of bundling the preload script into a single file? I don't think I follow how that relates to the polyfilled `require` function. Is it because they may want to use `require` with other modules?

Reviewer 2: > Could you expand on the importance of bundling the preload script into a single file?

This require function is less of a `require` function and more of a `getModule()` function that can only return four things.  In normal Node.js code people will split their code across multiple files and use `require('./thing')` to include the secondary file from the primary file.  This is not possible in sandbox mode as there is no disk access from the sandboxed process and our require function was never built to support that.  Therefore anyone writing their preload script in a moduluar way will need to bundle it into a single file using a pre-processor like webpack or browserify.

Author: Thank you! I'll make sure to make that clear.

Author: Addressed in c0870e7

* `electron` (only renderer process modules)
* [`events`](https://nodejs.org/api/events.html)
* [`timers`](https://nodejs.org/api/timers.html)
* [`url`](https://nodejs.org/api/url.html)

> In addition, the preload script also exposes certain Node.js primitives as globals:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition, the preload script also polyfills certain Node.js primitives as globals:
```

I want to emphasize that these are polyfills, not Node.js's implementation, they may not match the impl exactly and are provided as best effort implementations of the given APIs.

* [`Buffer`](https://nodejs.org/api/Buffer.html)

> * [`process`](https://nodejs.org/api/process.html)

Reviewer 2: We should probably link to our `process` doc here rather than nodes?

Author: 7bff21e

* [`clearImmediate`](https://nodejs.org/api/timers.html#timers_clearimmediate_immediate)
* [`setImmediate`](https://nodejs.org/api/timers.html#timers_setimmediate_callback_args)

> Note that because the Node.js environment is still present in the `preload`, it is still
> possible to leak privileged APIs to untrusted code running in the renderer process unless
> [`contextIsolation`][contextIsolation] is enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that because the environment presented to the `preload` script is substantially more
privileged than a website normally receives, it is still possible to leak privileged APIs to
untrusted code running in the renderer process unless [`contextIsolation`][contextIsolation] is enabled.
```

Not sure exactly how to rephrase this, gave a suggestion above, but it's really important to note that enabling `sandbox` **completely removes** Node.js, it isn't running but slightly isolated, Node.js **does not run** when sandbox is enabled.

Author: addressed in a64b500

### Configuring the sandbox

In Electron, renderer sandboxing can be enabled on a per-process basis with
the `sandbox: true` preference in the [`BrowserWindow`][browser-window] constructor.

```js
// main.js
app.whenReady().then(() => {
  const win = new BrowserWindow({
    webPreferences: {
      sandbox: true
    }
  })
  win.loadURL('http://google.com')
})
```

If you want to force sandboxing for all renderers, you can also use the
[`app.enableSandbox`][enable-sandbox] API. Note that this API has to be called before the
app's `ready` event.

```js
app.enableSandbox()
app.whenReady().then(() => {
  // no need to pass `sandbox: true` since `app.enableSandbox()` was called.
  const win = new BrowserWindow()
  win.loadURL('http://google.com')
})
```

> You can also disable Chromium's sandbox entirely with the [`--no-sandbox`][no-sandbox]

Reviewer 2: Can we put this in smaller font 😉 , it's good info to share but we should make it clear somehow that folks shouldn't be doing this

Author: I hope ce2fad5 is enough emphasis!
